Here's my solution for defining Adam optimizers.
Actually, I chose these optimization parameters based on the original paper.
If we look at this paper,
we can basically learn from what these researchers have already spent time on.
In this section, details of adversarial training,
they go over their approach.
We can see some details about weight initialization and application of a LeakyReLU,
and here's the section about Adam optimizers.
It says they found that suggested learning rate of 0.001 to be too
high and used a smaller learning rate 0.0002 instead.
Then, it says they also changed the momentum term beta-1.
They found that the suggested value of 0.9 resulted in
instability and they reduced it to 0.5 to help stabilize training.
So, back to this notebook,
those numbers are what I'm using here.
A small learning rate 0.0002 and the beta1 equal to 0.5.
I'm setting beta2 to its default value and then
passing all of these into our Adam optimizers here.
Using parameters from a paper like this,
may not be perfect, but it's almost always a good place to start.
Okay. Then, to my training loop,
I actually trained for 50 epics because it took some time to get good generated samples.
As I trained, I printed out the loss over time.
For ease of visualization,
I also plotted the loss of the discriminator and generator at the end of training.
So, I recorded the loss twice for each of our 50 epics,
and I can see that the discriminator is sort of
steadily decreasing but gets a little spiky at the end,
and the generator looks like it's increasing,
but also sort of spiky at the end.
This spike in our generator loss looks a bit unstable,
but I can see that it goes down again.
So, I'm not too worried about this behavior.
Now, these are okay final values,
but I will say that it looks like I probably could have trained for a bit of
a longer time and hopefully you saw these both
decreased to a somewhat smaller value here.
Next, I'm going to use a helper function to visualize
the samples that the generator learn to create after the last epic.
So, this code should look familiar.
One thing to note is that since I trained on GPU,
and moving the images to CPU and converting them to numpy images for visualization.
Here are the generated samples after the last epic of training,
and some of these look pretty good.
We can clearly see a white eight on a blue background,
and something like a three here, a six and three.
So, it's learning to generate even multiple numbers in one image.
But there is still some color variance and blurriness
and so I do think I could've stood to train for a little longer.
But this is pretty good for a kind of complex data set.
Now, you could imagine applying this kind of model to any image set,
to create new kinds of flowers or new types of faces based on a given set.
Generative models really allow you to imagine within a learned feature space,
and the applications range from generating digits to generating art and music.
I'll also say that these kinds of adversarial models have been really useful for
finding weaknesses in existing models or biases when it comes to certain factors,
and I've linked to some of this research below.
For now, I hope you're thinking about how you might apply
these models to generate something that is interesting to you.